
## Includes

All includes should use quotes, except for system includes (such as STL). Including files from contrib packages brought in by the package manager should be quoted.

Includes should be grouped by where they are coming from. Within each group they should be ordered alphabetically. The definition, and order, of the groups is:

- Header for this implementation (if .cpp)
- Local includes in your module implementation (src/)
- Module includes, including the public includes of your own module (include/)
- Contrib includes
- System includes

For example:

```cpp
// Example `allocator.cpp` file

// Copyright Chad Engler

#include "he/core/allocator.h"

#include "allocator_helpers.h"

#include "he/core/assert.h"
#include "he/core/compiler.h"
#include "he/core/config.h"
#include "he/core/utils.h"

#include "fmt/core.h"

#include <new>
```

## switch-case statements

indent case statements
Add a block if you declare any variables, or if the logic is more complex than a few simple statements.

## Getters

Getters should use the name of what they get without any prefix.

Example:

```cpp
class Example
{
public:
    uint32_t Value() const { return m_value; }

private:
    uint32_t m_value;
}
```

If a getter takes any parameters, or if the getter has the same name as the type it returns then the function should be prefixed with `Get`:

```cpp
enum ElementSize { Small, Big };

class Example
{
public:
    ElementSize GetElementSize() const { return m_elementSize; }

private:
    ElementSize m_elementSize;
}
```

## Setters

Setters should use the name of what they set with a `Set` prefix.

Example:

```cpp
class Example
{
public:
    void SetValue(uint32_t value) { m_value = value; }

private:
    uint32_t m_value;
}
```

## Macros

### Naming

Macros names should be in UPPER_SNAKE_CASE and be prefixed with `HE_`. Macro parameters should be lowerCamelCase.

Example:

```cpp
#define HE_EXAMPLE(paramOne, paramTwo) paramOne ## paramTwo
```

### Fully Qualified Names

All generated code, including code generated by macros, should use fully qualified names. This includes the `::` prefix.

Macros can be used in any namespace context, so always using the fully qualified name for types ensures the macro works in any context.

Example:

```cpp
#define HE_MAKE_STRING(name, value) ::he::String name(#value)
```

## Error Handling

### When to use HE_ASSERT

The `HE_ASSERT` macro is used to validate preconditions that MUST be true. That is, without the condition being true the program must immediately halt either because continuing would crash anyway or because continuing would cause data corruption. Generally speaking assertions should be used to validate *programmer* assumptions, not *user* assumptions or data.

Examples:

- DO use `HE_ASSERT` to validate array bounds access and other memory overwrite errors.
- DO NOT use `HE_ASSERT` to validate data that can comes from user input, data files, network, etc.

`HE_ASSERT` is compiled out of the program when `HE_ENABLE_ASSERTIONS=0`. By default, the Shipping configuration will define `HE_ENABLE_ASSERTIONS=0` and therefore strip assertions from the build.

### When to use HE_VERIFY

The `HE_VERIFY` macro is used to validate preconditions that SHOULD be true. That is, a bug is present if the condition is not true but the program can recover. Most commonly `HE_VERIFY` is used to validate expected state or input which when incorrect can lead to bad behavior. However since the program can continue, it does so after logging the issue.

Examples:

- DO use `HE_VERIFY` to validate function parameters are within expected ranges
- DO NOT use `HE_VERIFY` to validate data the comes from user input, data files, network, etc.

### When to use HE_LOG_ERROR

The logging system should be used anytime there is unexpected behavior or data input to leave a record of this misbehavior.

### Errors in APIs

Errors should be expressed through a boolean or enum return value. Use a bool unless the type of error would influence the behavior of a caller, in which case use an enum.

For platform abstractions where the implementation will be interfacing with the Operating System use the `he::Result` structure which represents an operating system result code.

## Disallowed Features

### Exceptions

Exceptions (throw/try/catch) should not be used at any time. Stack unwinding is disabled by compiler flags.

### RTTI

Run time type information should not be used at any time, and is disabled by compiler flags. If reflection data is required for logic then utilize the Harvest Schema IDL to generate such information at build time.
